Let's jump into a quick demo and see how to create an AWS Cloud9 environment.
I just entered my AWS account admin console.
I'm going to log in with admin IAM user and his password.
Let's search for Cloud9 in the services,
and you can see an error message immediately at the top saying that this user is
not authorized to access the current environment. Just like how we assigned
different policies through the users in creating and maintaining AWS CodeCommit
repositories, we need to assign proper policies to this user so that he can
create an environment in AWS Cloud9.
So we are going to sign out and log back into the admin console as the
root user. Let me enter my email address and password. In the IAM in Find
Services, select Groups, click Admins, choose Permissions, click Attach
Policy, and let's type AWSCloud9, and you can see there are three policies
related to AWS Cloud9, and I'm going to select AWSCloud9Administrator.
Click Attach Policy.
You can see the new policies added to this group, and, hence, all the users
that are part of this group will have this policy set up.
Let me sign up as a root user and log back into my accounts
admin page as admin user. Click on Cloud9.
Now, you don't see the error anymore.
Click on Create environment, give a name to the environment and an
optional description, click Next step. In the environment,
you can create a new EC2 instance that will host this
environment or you can use your own Linux machine.
In that case,
you need to enter the host's name and the credentials to connect to
the host machine that you're going to provide.
I'm going to choose the EC2 option. Under Instance type, I'm going to
select t2.micro for instance type and Amazon Linux as the platform. That is
a cost saving measure to hibernate your EC2 instance once it has been
hidden for a specific time. Click Next step.
You will see a summary of your development environment specification
that you are going to create. Click Create environment.
It will take a few seconds before the environment gets created successfully.
Once the environment is created,
you see a simple command terminal with a README page at
top right. You see a Share button.
Click on that.
Now we can share your environment with other users for pair
programming. You can add there IAM username, specify the
access that you want to give.
I'm going to limit to read‑only access and click Invite.
You can see that admin2 user has been granted
read‑only access. Click Collaborators.
You can see all the users that have access to this
environment and their level of access.
AWS Resources will show all the local and the remote functions that are
part of this environment and the Debugger panel that you may use to
monitor the values while debugging a specific program. Click on
settings to the right of the Share button. You will see different
settings that are configurable.
The settings at the project level lets you change the look and feel of
the editor, a different language support. AWS Settings lets you
specify the region and the AWS credentials.
You also have the option to change your key bindings, and
modify the teams, and specify whether you want your files to
be auto saved in the cloud or not.
Click on AWS Cloud9, click Go To Your Dashboard. Under Your environments,
you can see that Globomantics1 environment that you created just now. Under
Shared with you, it lists all the environments that are currently being
shared with you, and Account environments lists all the environments that
are part of this AWS circle.
From this dashboard page, you can click Open IDE button, and
it can launch your development environment.
I'm trying to clone the CodeCommit repository that we created in the last model,
and you can see an error message that we could not read the
remote repository because of the access rights.
So let's set the public and private keys to connect with the repository.
Switch to .ssh directory and run the ssh‑keygen utility. I'm going to
leave the pass phrase as empty and specify Cloud9_rsa as the key name.
You can see a private key and a public key being created with the name
that we mentioned before.
Let's open the public key and copy the contents.
I'm going to log in back to IAM service.
Select the user that needs the access, select Security credentials,
upload SSH public key, and paste the key contents in this
text box, and click Upload SSH public key.
I'm going to copy this key ID and log back into Cloud9 environment. On
the .ssh directory, I'm going to create a new file named config and paste
the following contents. User is the SSH key ID that we copied from IAM,
and IdentifyFile is the location of the private key that we initially
created. Save this file, and change the permission of the file so that it
has the required access. Now, let's try a simple SSH command to the server, and you can see the connection is successfully established.